CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Contributions are always welcome. Before contributing please read the
[code of conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and [search the issue tracker](issues); your issue may have already been discussed or fixed in `master`. To contribute,
[fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) this repository, commit your changes, and [send a Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).

Note that our [code of conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) applies to all platforms and venues related to this project; please follow it in all your interactions with the project and its participants.

## Feature Requests

Feature requests should be submitted in the [Issue tracker](../../issues), with a description of the expected behavior & use case, where they’ll remain closed until sufficient interest, [e.g. :+1: reactions](https://help.github.com/articles/about-discussions-in-issues-and-pull-requests/), has been [shown by the community](../../issues?q=label%3A%22votes+needed%22+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc).
Before submitting an Issue, please search for similar ones in the
[closed issues](../../issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3Aenhancement).

## Pull Requests

1. Ensure any install or build dependencies are removed before the end of the layer when doing a build.
2. Increase the version numbers in any examples files and the README.md to the new version that this Pull Request would represent. The versioning scheme we use is [SemVer](http://semver.org/).
3. **Version Updates Required**: When submitting a Pull Request, ensure you update the following files with the latest version:
   - `CHANGELOG.md` - Add a new version entry documenting your changes
   - `package.json` - Update the version field
   - `components/NewRelicAgent/NRAgent.xml` - Update the version in the interface definition
4. You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of two other developers, or if you do not have permission to do that, you may request the second reviewer to merge it for you.

## Contributor License Agreement

Keep in mind that when you submit your Pull Request, you'll need to sign the CLA via the click-through using CLA-Assistant. If you'd like to execute our corporate CLA, or if you have any questions, please drop us an email at opensource@newrelic.com.

For more information about CLAs, please check out Alex Russell’s excellent post,
[“Why Do I Need to Sign This?”](https://infrequently.org/2008/06/why-do-i-need-to-sign-this/).

## Slack

For contributors and maintainers of open source projects hosted by New Relic, we host a public Slack with a channel dedicated to this project. If you are contributing to this project, you're welcome to request access to that community space.

Commit message:

chore: add pr template to reminder contributors for roku manual testing

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Contributions are always welcome. Before contributing please read the
[code of conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and [search the issue tracker](issues); your issue may have already been discussed or fixed in `master`. To contribute,
[fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) this repository, commit your changes, and [send a Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).

Note that our [code of conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) applies to all platforms and venues related to this project; please follow it in all your interactions with the project and its participants.

## Feature Requests

Feature requests should be submitted in the [Issue tracker](../../issues), with a description of the expected behavior & use case, where they’ll remain closed until sufficient interest, [e.g. :+1: reactions](https://help.github.com/articles/about-discussions-in-issues-and-pull-requests/), has been [shown by the community](../../issues?q=label%3A%22votes+needed%22+sort%3Areactions-%2B1-desc).
Before submitting an Issue, please search for similar ones in the
[closed issues](../../issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed+label%3Aenhancement).

## Pull Requests

1. Ensure any install or build dependencies are removed before the end of the layer when doing a build.
2. Increase the version numbers in any examples files and the README.md to the new version that this Pull Request would represent. The versioning scheme we use is [SemVer](http://semver.org/).
3. **Version Updates Required**: When submitting a Pull Request, ensure you update the following files with the latest version:
   - `CHANGELOG.md` - Add a new version entry documenting your changes
   - `package.json` - Update the version field
   - `components/NewRelicAgent/NRAgent.xml` - Update the version in the interface definition
4. **📺 Roku Device Testing Required**: Since Roku tests cannot be automated in GitHub Actions, all Pull Requests must include manual testing on a physical Roku device:
   - Run all relevant tests on an actual Roku device
   - Verify video playback events are tracked correctly
   - Provide evidence (screenshots, logs, or detailed test descriptions) in the PR
   - Check the manual testing boxes in the PR template
5. You may merge the Pull Request in once you have the sign-off of two other developers, or if you do not have permission to do that, you may request the second reviewer to merge it for you.

## Contributor License Agreement

Keep in mind that when you submit your Pull Request, you'll need to sign the CLA via the click-through using CLA-Assistant. If you'd like to execute our corporate CLA, or if you have any questions, please drop us an email at opensource@newrelic.com.

For more information about CLAs, please check out Alex Russell’s excellent post,
[“Why Do I Need to Sign This?”](https://infrequently.org/2008/06/why-do-i-need-to-sign-this/).

## Slack

For contributors and maintainers of open source projects hosted by New Relic, we host a public Slack with a channel dedicated to this project. If you are contributing to this project, you're welcome to request access to that community space.
